



Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)                  R. Fielding, Ed.
Request for Comments: 9110                                         Adobe
STD: 97                                               M. Nottingham, Ed.
Obsoletes: 2818, 7230, 7231, 7232, 7233, 7235,                    Fastly
           7538, 7615, 7694                              J. Reschke, Ed.
Updates: 3864                                                 greenbytes
Category: Standards Track                                      June 2022
ISSN: 2070-1721


                             HTTP Semantics

Abstract

   The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a stateless application-
   level protocol for distributed, collaborative, hypertext information
   systems.  This document describes the overall architecture of HTTP,
   establishes common terminology, and defines aspects of the protocol
   that are shared by all versions.  In this definition are core
   protocol elements, extensibility mechanisms, and the "http" and
   "https" Uniform Resource Identifier (URI) schemes.

   This document updates RFC 3864 and obsoletes RFCs 2818, 7231, 7232,
   7233, 7235, 7538, 7615, 7694, and portions of 7230.

Status of This Memo

   This is an Internet Standards Track document.

   This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
   (IETF).  It represents the consensus of the IETF community.  It has
   received public review and has been approved for publication by the
   Internet Engineering Steering Group (IESG).  Further information on
   Internet Standards is available in Section 2 of RFC 7841.

   Information about the current status of this document, any errata,
   and how to provide feedback on it may be obtained at
   https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc9110.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2022 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (https://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document.  Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document.  Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Revised BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the
   Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as described
   in the Revised BSD License.

   This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF
   Contributions published or made publicly available before November
   10, 2008.  The person(s) controlling the copyright in some of this
   material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow
   modifications of such material outside the IETF Standards Process.
   Without obtaining an adequate license from the person(s) controlling
   the copyright in such materials, this document may not be modified
   outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative works of it may
   not be created outside the IETF Standards Process, except to format
   it for publication as an RFC or to translate it into languages other
   than English.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Purpose
     1.2.  History and Evolution
     1.3.  Core Semantics
     1.4.  Specifications Obsoleted by This Document
   2.  Conformance

1.  Introduction

1.1.  Purpose

   The Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a family of stateless,
   application-level, request/response protocols that share a generic
   interface, extensible semantics, and self-descriptive messages to
   enable flexible interaction with network-based hypertext information
   systems.


9.  Methods

9.1.  Overview

   The request method token is the primary source of request semantics;
   it indicates the purpose for which the client has made this request
   and what is expected by the client as a successful result.


9.3.  Method Definitions

9.3.1.  GET

   The GET method requests transfer of a current selected representation
   for the target resource.  A successful response reflects the quality
   of "sameness" identified by the target URI (Section 1.2.2 of [URI]).
   Hence, retrieving identifiable information via HTTP is usually
   performed by making a GET request on an identifier associated with
   the potential for providing that information in a 200 (OK) response.


9.3.2.  HEAD

   The HEAD method is identical to GET except that the server MUST NOT
   send content in the response.  HEAD is used to obtain metadata about
   the selected representation without transferring its representation
   data, often for the sake of testing hypertext links or finding recent
   modifications.


17.  Security Considerations

   This section is meant to inform developers, information providers,
   and users of known security concerns relevant to HTTP semantics and
   its use for transferring information over the Internet.
   Considerations related to caching are discussed in Section 7 of
   [CACHING], and considerations related to HTTP/1.1 message syntax and
   parsing are discussed in Section 11 of [HTTP/1.1].


Appendix B.  Changes from Previous RFCs

B.1.  Changes from RFC 2818

   None.


Acknowledgements

   Aside from the current editors, the following individuals deserve
   special recognition for their contributions to early aspects of HTTP
   and its core specifications: Marc Andreessen, Tim Berners-Lee, Robert
   Cailliau, Daniel W. Connolly, Bob Denny, John Franks, Jim Gettys,
   Jean-François Groff, Phillip M. Hallam-Baker, Koen Holtman, Jeffery
   L. Hostetler, Shel Kaphan, Dave Kristol, Yves Lafon, Scott
   D. Lawrence, Paul J. Leach, Håkon W. Lie, Ari Luotonen, Larry
   Masinter, Rob McCool, Jeffrey C. Mogul, Lou Montulli, David Morris,
   Henrik Frystyk Nielsen, Dave Raggett, Eric Rescorla, Tony Sanders,
   Lawrence C. Stewart, Marc VanHeyningen, and Steve Zilles.


Authors' Addresses

   Roy T. Fielding (editor)
   Adobe
   345 Park Ave
   San Jose, CA 95110
   United States of America
   Email: fielding@gbiv.com
   URI:   https://roy.gbiv.com/

